Blog: How our marketing team use PostHog (#4271)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-marketing.md

---
date: 2022-09-23

> title: "How our marketing team uses PostHog"

Author: Possible alternative titles:

1. How (and why) you should use PostHog on your website, too
2. How we Posthog for marketing (and why you should too)

I like (2), but I think I need to re-write / add a stronger conclusion to support that headline. Something that bascially sums up the benefits.

Author: Actually settling on 'How (and why) our marketing team uses PostHog' atm the moment

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true

> categories: ["Inside PostHog"]

Author: ```suggestion
categories: ["Inside PostHog", "Guides", "Using PostHog"]
```

---
date: 2022-09-27
title: "How (and why) our marketing team uses PostHog"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Inside PostHog", "Guides", "Using PostHog"]
author: ["andy-vandervell"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

We learned an interesting fact recently: only 20% of our users track their marketing website **and** their product using PostHog. This is our fault. We market PostHog to engineers, so it's not a surprise few use it for marketing as well.

> But here's another fact: all the things that make PostHog great for understanding your product also apply to your website. To demonstrate, we're sharing how we use PostHog for marketing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But here's another fact: all the things that make PostHog great for understanding your product also apply to your marketing website. To demonstrate, we're sharing how we use PostHog for marketing.
```

> > Andy Vandervell is Content Marketing Lead at PostHog. He edits and writes the blog and runs our newsletter, HogMail. Prior to PostHog, Andy was a journalist and strategist for the likes of WIRED and Time Inc. UK. He's all about them words and those SEO keywords, basically.

Author: ```suggestion
> Andy Vandervell is Content Marketing Lead at PostHog. He edits and writes the blog and runs our newsletter, HogMail. Prior to PostHog, Andy was a journalist and editorial strategist at WIRED, Time Inc. UK and others. He's all about them words and those SEO keywords, basically.
```

 
## The goals of our marketing team

To start, let's talk about our goals as a marketing team. In Q3 2022, these were:

- Average 420 weekly 'new organization signups'
 
- Increase Organic SEO traffic to 5,000 unique users per week

- Acquire 20 new reviews on our G2 profile

Of course, these are just top-level goals. We use PostHog to track them, but they're the output of dozens of others. To do so, we built dashboards... lots of dashboards. 

In fact, 'how we use PostHog for marketing' is really a story about all the dashboards we use. Let's start at the top.

## Marketing dashboard 

> This is our top-level dashboard. It tracks our most important metrics, like 'new org signups', as well as other important top-level ones, such as 'validated credit cards'. It also features a handful of "circuit breaker" metrics.

Author: Tbh, the double quote probably isn't necessary here. It was mainly to differentiate between references to things in the products versus our own name for something.

### Core KPIs

> This dashboard is setup in a grid with two insights per KPI – that's key performance indicator if don't speak "marketing". One is the total number with 'compare to previous period' enabled; the second is the same metric as a weekly trend. This gives us an at-a-glance view of the top-level number, and context around peaks and troughs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dashboard is setup in a grid with two insights per KPI – that's key performance indicator if you don't speak "marketing". One is the total number with 'compare to previous period' enabled; the second is the same metric as a weekly trend. This gives us an at-a-glance view of the top-level number, and context around peaks and troughs.
```

In July, for example, we discovered a tracking bug between 'posthog.com' and 'app.posthog.com' which caused an obvious drop in conversions. Then, in August, we introduced a new pricing page experience. 

![pricing trend](../images/blog/posthog-marketing/pricing-trend.png)

As you can see (above), our first iteration was a pretty dramatic failure. Users visiting the pricing page and "showing intent" (we'll get into what this means later) declined from ~25% down to ~10%. It was also obvious from watching session recordings that our new pricing wizard was simply confusing people.

This lead our Website & Docs team to iterate several new versions, which they then tested using feature flags and experiments. Conversions have since returned to normal and we've simplified our pricing as a result.

> 💡 **PostHog Tip:** Try using filters on dashboards! You can apply global filters to any dashboard based on event properties, person properties, feature flags, and cohorts. This is a great way to drill down into specific audiences (e.g. users by country, city, continent).

## Website dashboard

> One level below we have our main website dashboard. This is less focused on conversion metrics and more on general traffic trends across posthog.com. Here, we're looking at typical analytics things like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One level below we have our main website dashboard. This is less focused on conversion metrics and more on general traffic trends across posthog.com. Here, we're looking at typical analytics things like:
```
```suggestion
One level below we have our main website dashboard. This is less focused on conversion metrics and more on general traffic trends across posthog.com. Here, we're looking at typical analytics like:
```

> One level below we have our main website dashboard. This is less focused on conversion metrics and more on general traffic trends across posthog.com. Here, we're looking at typical analytics things like:

Author: ```suggestion
One level below we have our main website dashboard. This is less focused on conversion metrics and more on general traffic trends across posthog.com. Here, we're looking at things like:
```

- Total website users
- Organic SEO users
- Unique users reading the blog
- The most read pages in each website section
- A map view showing website users by country

> This is all pretty straightforward stuff, but it's still very useful to us as a marketing team. Recently, for example, we identified a specific tutorial that was getting loads of SEO traffic but was in serious need of updating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is all straightforward stuff, but it's still useful to us as a marketing team. Recently, for example, we identified a tutorial that was getting loads of SEO traffic but was in serious need of updating.
```

Author: > > Love it! Agree on title - what about 'if you're only using PostHog for your product, you're missing out' or 'the ultimate guide to using PostHog for marketing analytics' or something in that ballpark?
> 
> Think it would be best to keep marketing up front in the title. 'The ultimate guide to marketing analytics in PostHog' might work if you aren't happy with current title.

I think we're good with the title now (at least I am). Context: the title was just 'How we use PostHog for marketing' or something like that.

![section breakdown](../images/blog/posthog-marketing/section-breakdown.png)

Drilling further down, we breakdown the unique sessions by website section (above). Given we're a developer tool first, our Docs pages are generally the most popular. You can do this by creating a trends insight with multiple graph series where `Current URL` contains your desired URL path.

![pages per session](../images/blog/posthog-marketing/pages-per-session.png)

We also track `sessions per user` and `pages per session` here using trends insights. We're not looking to optimize these metrics, but they can be useful for comparative purposes. Here's how to track these metrics in PostHog:

1. Create a trends insight with two graph series – e.g. series 'A' as unique users and series 'B' as unique sessions. 

2. Use 'Formula' box under 'Filters' to calculate your desired metric. In this case, `B/A` would give you 'sessions per user'. 

Formulas are a great way to track all sorts of metrics, including conversion rates.

> > 💡 **PostHog Tip:** You can resize and re-arrange your dashboard by clicking on the '...' menu and clicking on 'Edit layout' – you can also use the shortcut (E). We tend to use grids of smaller of insights, mainly because Charles (VP of Ops & Marketing) likes it when they fit easily onto a laptop screen! Speaking of which, tap 'F' to go fullscreen. You can also export any dashboard as a PNG via the '...' menu.

Author: Fair. I figured I could add a little extra, but it's a little much.

(For those interested, the trend line is generated using the [Glimpse Chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/google-trends-supercharge/ocmojhiloccgbpjnkeiooioedaklapap). I highlight recommend it!)

We use insights to help isolate the impact of our SEO content efforts from this organic word of mouth growth. For example, the insight below shows the weekly cumulative growth of all our SEO content since the beginning of the year.

![seo article trend](../images/blog/posthog-marketing/seo-article-trend.png)
 
You can get this view by selecting the 'Time' option in the 'Chart type' dropdown. This, combined with multiple graph series, will stack the results so you can view the cumulative trend. The 'Value' chart type does the opposite.

This insight also helps identify when traffic to our SEO content is dropping off. This is normally a prompt to investigate further in SEMRush, where we track Google rankings for a few hundred different keywords. That said, a degree of fluctuation is normal, so it's best not to overreact to a couple of down weeks, or over-celebrate a really good one.

### Things we don't measure.

> As much as possible, we like to measure outcomes, not activity. That's why we don't track bounce rate, for example – it's not a useful metric! Neither, to a lesser extent, are popular web metrics like 'time on page' or 'session duration'. Unless you're a social network or publisher, what does the time someone spends on your website actually tell you? Nothing, so we don't measure it. Instead, we measure outcomes, which is what our next dashboard is all about.

Author: Oh wow, that's like a blog post on its own, which is kind of why I didn't elaborate. Basically in GA, at least, bounce rate really means "didn't visit another page" on your website. This is perceived as bad according to bounce rate. But, even if that person spent several minutes reading an article, if they didn't click on a link to do something perceived valuable action, that would be considered a bounce.

There's a related issue with GA which, I assume, they've fixed in GA4 where it couldn't actually record 'time on page' accurately unless the user clicked on a link. So, if a user read evert word of a 3,000 word article, it records the time on page as 0.

On a broader note, even if you cared about 'bounce rate' you're much better of tracking your desired action than the percentage of users who didn't do that action, if that makes sense?

> As much as possible, we like to measure outcomes, not activity. That's why we don't track bounce rate, for example – it's not a useful metric! Neither, to a lesser extent, are popular web metrics like 'time on page' or 'session duration'. Unless you're a social network or publisher, what does the time someone spends on your website actually tell you? Nothing, so we don't measure it. Instead, we measure outcomes, which is what our next dashboard is all about.

Reviewer: That makes sense, would make a nice blog post I think. Thanks for explaining.

> As much as possible, we like to measure outcomes, not activity. That's why we don't track bounce rate, for example – it's not a useful metric! Neither, to a lesser extent, are popular web metrics like 'time on page' or 'session duration'. Unless you're a social network or publisher, what does the time someone spends on your website actually tell you? Nothing, so we don't measure it. Instead, we measure outcomes, which is what our next dashboard is all about.

Reviewer: It's funny because people think it is important because Google Analytics included it in their dashboard.

> As much as possible, we like to measure outcomes, not activity. That's why we don't track bounce rate, for example – it's not a useful metric! Neither, to a lesser extent, are popular web metrics like 'time on page' or 'session duration'. Unless you're a social network or publisher, what does the time someone spends on your website actually tell you? Nothing, so we don't measure it. Instead, we measure outcomes, which is what our next dashboard is all about.

Author: Yeah. I honestly don't know where it first started. Google may have invented it. I will look into that!

## Content marketing effectiveness

> This dashboard dives deeper into the impact of specific pages. It's built around a metric we call 'Showed Intent', though you could rename this 'Engaged Users' or any other euphemism you prefer. 

Author: Good point, that is the wrong word.

We achieved 14 of the 20 G2 profile reviews we aimed for in Q3 with an average score of 4.4. Not bad.

## What's next?

We're currently reviewing our objectives for Q4, but we're also looking to make improvements to what and how we track our marketing efforts.

### Quality signals for new users

We're currently working on a process for "quality scoring" signups. 

Our favored solution is based on an Ideal Customer Profile (ICP) score created by our customer success team. Once we've got the process nailed, it'll give us a much better picture of which channels are most valuable to us. 

We're also considering several other supporting signals, such as new users who ingest events or invite colleagues. We're still debating the best approach here.

### Improving how we track attribution

Until recently, we weren't focused on attribution outside of UTM parameters on our paid marketing activities. Marketing attribution is notoriously hard, so we felt our time and energy was better spent elsewhere. That said, it's becoming more important as we scale.

> We recently started collecting more information from users at signup – we've added an optional text field where people can tell us where they heard about us. We collect this data in PostHog, and manually export it for collation and analysis. It's not the most automated process ever, but it's a start and something we'll evolve over time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently started collecting more information from users at signup – we've added an optional text field where people can tell us where they heard about us. We collect this data in PostHog, and manually export it for analysis. It's not the most automated process ever, but it's a start and something we'll evolve over time. 
```
I don't know what the word collation means 😅 (I assume others will be the same)

Author: Heh, it's kind of redundent here anyway. I'll omit.

### Marketing experiments

Thus far, we've focused on content and developing marketing channels that work. Eventually, we'll need to spend more time on website optimization and experimentation. We're not there yet, and we're wary of over optimization, but we have all the tools we need when we need them. 

## Final thoughts (aka why we use PostHog in the marketing team)

In summary, there are a few important reasons why we use PostHog instead of traditional marketing tools:

1. **It does (almost) everything already:** Outside of a few edge cases, PostHog already does 95% of what we need. If (and when) we need more, we'll make the case for building that functionality, rather than resorting to some other tool.

> 2. **We're interested in outcomes, not activity:** A lot of traditional web metrics aren't useful. We want to know "how does x impact y", not just "how many people did x or y". Funnel insights are huge part of this, and the ability to go from viewing a funnel to watching session recordings of real users is just as powerful for us as it is for our product teams.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **We're interested in outcomes, not activity:** We want to know "how does x impact y" and why, not just "how many people did x or y". This is where traditional marketing tools fall short. No marketing platform lets you go from viewing a funnel to watching session recordings of real users on your website.
```

@ivanagas Reworded this a little. I feel like we're saying what you're suggesting without explicity saying it, if that makes sense? In any case, I think this wording is better.

> 2. **We're interested in outcomes, not activity:** A lot of traditional web metrics aren't useful. We want to know "how does x impact y", not just "how many people did x or y". Funnel insights are huge part of this, and the ability to go from viewing a funnel to watching session recordings of real users is just as powerful for us as it is for our product teams.

Reviewer: Maybe add something about how marketing tools are largely "self-contained" and disconnected from the broader reality of the product and business?

## Final thoughts (aka why we use PostHog in the marketing team)

In summary, there are a few important reasons why we use PostHog instead of traditional marketing tools:

1. **It does (almost) everything already:** Outside of a few edge cases, PostHog already does 95% of what we need. If (and when) we need more, we'll make the case for building that functionality, rather than resorting to some other tool.

2. **We're interested in outcomes, not activity:** A lot of traditional web metrics aren't useful. We want to know "how does x impact y", not just "how many people did x or y". Funnel insights are huge part of this, and the ability to go from viewing a funnel to watching session recordings of real users is just as powerful for us as it is for our product teams.

3. **It eliminates guesswork:** Intuition and speculation have their place, but there's nothing more satisfying than knowing exactly why something is happening **and** having the tools to rectify the problem. Traditional analytics tools pose more questions than they answer, which is incredibly frustrating.

> We hope this look at how we use PostHog will inspire you (and your marketing teams) to experiment with what's possible in PostHog. Just like our product, our approach to marketing is always evolving, so we'll be back to update you on that in future. 

Author: @charlescook-ph Added this conclusion since you read it last. Interested if you'd add anything here

Author: Good points. Will edit.

> We hope this look at how we use PostHog will inspire you (and your marketing teams) to experiment with what's possible in PostHog. Just like our product, our approach to marketing is always evolving, so we'll be back to update you on that in future. 

Author: ```suggestion
We hope this look at how we use PostHog will inspire you (and your marketing teams) to experiment with what's possible in PostHog. If you found this useful, here's some suggested further reading:
```

> In the meantime, here's some suggested further reading:
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
